# The Text Retrieval Problem
_How do search engines work?_

* What is text retrieval?
* What is database retrieval?
* Document selection vs. document ranking as two strategies for responding to a user's query

Text retrieval is a task where a system responds to a user's query with relevant documents. 

* You have a collection of documents
* User gives a query to the system
* The search engine returns relevant results to the user

This process is sometimes also called information retrieval, although IR is much more broad (audio, video, etc.). In the industry, this can be called "search technology". 

### What is the difference between text retrieval and DB retrieval?

These two tasks are similar in many ways, but also differ. In TR, the data is unstructured. In databases, the data is highly structured. In TR, the query is often ambiguous, as is the meaning of the data. In a DB, both queries and data have well-defined semantics. In TR, the "answer" or response from the system is _relevant documents_, but in a DB, the response is _matching documents_. 

Because TR isn't empirically defined, and the relevance of documents isn't specifically defined, TR can be an ambiguous problem. Different algorithms can have differt results, but there is currently no objective measure of which is inherently _better_. 

## Formal definition of TR problem
* Vocabulary: `V = {w_1, w_2, ..., w_n }` of language (`w` = word)
* Query: `q = q_1, q_2, ..., q_m ` where `q_i` is a word in the vocabulary (`V`).
* Document: `d_i = d_(i,1), d_(i,2), d_(i,j)` where `d_(i,j)` is in the vocabulary (`V`).
* Collection: `C = {d_1, d_2, d_M}` (a collection of documents)
* Set of relevant documents: `R(q)` is in `C`
 * generally unknown and user-dependent
 * query is a "hint" on which document is in the relevant documents
* Task = compute `R'(q)`, an approximation of `R(q)`.

## How to compute `R'(q)`
### Strategy 1: Document Selection
* `R'(q) = { d \in C | f(d,q) = true }` (the notes say 1 is true and 0 is false but I value my boolean abstraction)
* System must decide if a document is either _relevant_ or _not relevant_ in absolute terms.
### Strategy 2: Document Ranking
* `R'(q) = { d \in C | f(d,q) > \theta }`  where theta is a cutoff of relevance decided by the user ).
* The system only needs to decide whether a document is more or less relevant than another (relative relevance). 
* The user has the option to continue scrolling down into less relevant documents, and ranking provides a convenient order to display to the user, so this second strategy is generally preferred. 

#### When should I rank?
When the following two statements hold true:
* The utility of a specific document (with respect to a user) is _independent_ of the utility of any other document (i.e. document a's relevance doesn't impact document b's relevance)
* When the user will scroll through results sequentially

# Summary
Text retrieval is an empirically defined problem, but which algorithm is better will be judged by the users (non-empirical?). Document ranking is generally preferred to help users prioritize the examination of search results, and to bypass the difficulty in determining absolute relevance (users decide the cutoff via pagination). The main challenge of Text Retrieval (TR) is to design an effective ranking function `f(q,d) = ?` (`q` = query, `d` = document, `?` = relevance).

